What is DevOps?

The Infinity Pic here.

1- plan 
we start a project with a plan it should be feasible
2- code
it should be clean readable and well formatted
3- build
the step of compiling and getting dependencies. preparing code for the actual run 
4- testing
catching problems before they explode. unit testing, end to end test, security test, etc. all of this is automated. moving from devs to ops
5- deployment
deployments are automated in devops and we use tools for automated deployments, using strategies like canary deployment, blue green deployment, rolling deployment
6- operate 
ensuring the system continues to run reliably in real word situations, scaling up/down.
7- monitoring
gathering data about the server and monitor the technical and buiseness outcomes

it's a loop!

culture of constatnt learning and innovation


you are not supposed to do everything 

a devops engineer bridges the gap between the diff team and automate the boring tasks

you are here to connect all the dots and keep thing running smoothly

set up pipelines, integrate testing into the pipeline, automate deployments, codify the infrastructure and finally when the code is live you keep watch.


heart beat of devops

CI/CD

what it actually mean

coding - building - testing - deployment

now make it into a convayerbelt 

thats pipeline

when ever there is a commit the pipeline run and your automated tests run and deployment happens if it clears them

we right these pipelines 

define each steps using code

you orchestrate the continers with kubernaties

Iac(infrastructure as code)

know the cloud providers (learn one first others become easier) AWS

bash/shell scripting and comfortable with js or python

taking it step by step

GIT & GITHUB:
distributed version control system

CI/CD pipelines:
github actions
it runs on push
massive libraries
uses version controlled yaml configs
it is called workflow
it lives in the repo 
it is just a yaml file
triggers(when to run)
jobs(set of tasks)
steps(actual commands and actions)
yaml information


Docker:
lunch box for application 
it works every where
provides stability
enables development, packaging, execution in a unified environment
self contained
why bother?
it makes apps faster and better in both development and deployment
most comment help points 
1- consistency
2- isolation
3- portability
4- light weight & efficient 
5- version control for applications
6- scalable
7- DevOps integration

how does it work
images & Container
an image is a lightweight standalone executable package that includes everything that is needed to run an application
and a container is a run able instance of an image 

recipe is the image and the real cake is the container

multiple container from one image

docker volume is a presistent data storage mechanisim thta allows data to be shareable between host and container or multiple containers and ensures data presistance

docker network is a communication channle it allows connetion with other containers

docker workflow
1- docker client
2- docker host(docker daemon)
3- docker registry(docker hub)
